README.md, before:

<!-- Animated Banner -->
<p align="center">
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/RachelinTheLoop/RachelinTheLoop/main/Mybanner.gif" alt="Ray's Animated Banner" width="100%" />
</p>

<h1 align="center">Hi 👋, I'm Rachel Odhiambo</h1>


<p align="center">
  <b>📊 Data Scientist in Training @ Moringa School | Python • ML • Analytics | Based in Nairobi, Kenya.</b><br>
  🌍  Passionate about using data to solve real-world problems| 💡 Open to Internships & Collaborations
</p>

## 👋 About Me

I'm a Data Scientist-in-training with a background in finance, credit risk, and analytics. With over 2 years of experience in the financial services sector, I'm now applying my skills in Python, SQL, and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. This portfolio showcases my hands-on projects that combine business insight with technical execution to drive data-informed decision-making.

---

## 📌 Quick Facts

- 🛠️ **I’m currently working on**: a customer service analysis project using real-world call data to improve business decision-making.
- 🌱 **I’m currently learning**: Machine Learning (clustering, time series), Cloud tools (BigQuery, AWS basics), Building interactive dashboards
- 👯 **I’m looking to collaborate on**: real-world projects that use data for social or commercial impact.
- 🤔 **I’m looking for help with**: building end-to-end ML pipelines, and model deployment (e.g., Streamlit, Flask, or cloud platforms).
- 💬 **Ask me about**: Python, SQL, Machine Learning, Data Analytics and Visualization, Business IT Systems, Moringa School
- 📫 **How to reach me**: **LinkedIn**: [Rachel Odhiambo](https://www.linkedin.com/in/rachelodhiambo/), **GitHub**: [RachelinTheLoop](https://github.com/RachelinTheLoop),  **Email**: rakothodhiambo@gmail.com
  
- 😄 **Pronouns**: she/her  
- ⚡ **Fun fact**: I love travelling and fitness.

---
## 📈 Skills

- **Programming**: Python (Pandas, NumPy, Scikit-learn, Matplotlib, Seaborn), SQL  
- **Data Tools**: Power BI, Tableau, Google Data Studio  
- **Machine Learning**: Regression, Classification  
- **Business Tools**: Excel (advanced), Google Sheets (automations), Financial Modeling  
- **Version Control**: Git, GitHub  
- **Soft Skills**: Communication, Reporting, Teamwork, Customer Excellence

## 📊 Featured Projects

### 1. 📞 Real-World Customer Care Call Analysis (Multi-Branch(10) Carwash Business)
**Tools:** Python, Pandas, Matplotlib, Seaborn, Plotly, Jupyter Notebook  
**Description:** Led an end-to-end analysis of real customer service call records collected over multiple months from a premium carwash chain. Personally documented the calls, engineered features such as call periods, days, and hours, and visualized trends in reasons and responses, uncovering outlet-level operational insights. Presented findings in a professional Jupyter Notebook.  
**Business Value:** Enabled data-driven improvements in customer care processes, identified service gaps per branch, and supported strategic decision-making with actionable insights. A dashboard is in development to further enhance operations monitoring.  
**🔒 Data Protection:** Customer phone numbers were anonymized using alias mapping techniques, ensuring strict privacy and professional handling of sensitive information throughout the project.  
**🔗 [View Project](https://github.com/RachelinTheLoop/call-center-analytics)**



### 2. 🔁 Customer Churn Prediction   
**Tools:** Python, Pandas, Scikit-learn, Matplotlib, Seaborn, XGBoost, SMOTE  
**Description:** Developed and evaluated multiple classification models to predict customer churn using historical telecom data. Explored the impact of regularization, applied SMOTE to address class imbalance, and assessed models with ROC curves, confusion matrices, and precision-recall metrics.  
**Business Value:** Helps telecom providers reduce churn by identifying at-risk customers early and supporting the design of personalized retention campaigns.  
**🔗 [View Project](https://github.com/RachelinTheLoop/predicting-customer-churn)**



### 3. ✈ Aviation Accident Data Analysis  
**Tools:** Pandas, Seaborn, Plotly, Google Colab  
**Description:** Analyzed aviation accident records to uncover trends by aircraft make, engine type, damage severity, and geographic location. Delivered compelling visuals and strategic recommendations based on data-driven evidence.  
**Business Value:** Informs aircraft acquisition, risk management, and safety strategies for aviation stakeholders.  
**🔗 [View Project](https://github.com/RachelinTheLoop/Aviation-Risk-Analysis)**
This was my first project; since then, I have undergone so much learning and growth.


---

## Projects I have collaborated on:
### 🔋 [Movie Market Analysis](https://github.com/PrimeTonyCode/Movie-Market-Analysis.git)
> Movie Market Analysis for best investment decisions


## 📫 Let's Connect!
- **LinkedIn**: [Rachel Odhiambo](https://www.linkedin.com/in/rachelodhiambo/)
- **GitHub**: [RachelinTheLoop](https://github.com/RachelinTheLoop)
- **Email**: rakothodhiambo@gmail.com

### 🧰 Languages and Tools

<p align="left">
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/arduino/arduino-original.svg" height="40"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/amazonwebservices/amazonwebservices-original.svg" height="40"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/docker/docker-original.svg" height="40"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/flask/flask-original.svg" height="40"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/javascript/javascript-original.svg" height="40"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/python/python-original.svg" height="40"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/jupyter/jupyter-original.svg" height="40"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/html5/html5-original.svg" height="40"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/css3/css3-original.svg" height="40"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/linux/linux-original.svg" height="40"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/mysql/mysql-original.svg" height="40"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/postgresql/postgresql-original.svg" height="40"/>
</p>

---

### 📊 GitHub Analytics
<table align="center">
  <tr>
    <td>
      <img src="https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api?username=RachelinTheLoop&show_icons=true&theme=default&bg_color=ffffff&hide_border=true&v=2" width="300" />
    </td>
    <td>
      <img src="https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api/top-langs/?username=RachelinTheLoop&layout=compact&theme=default&bg_color=ffffff&hide_border=true&v=2" width="300" />
    </td>
    <td>
      <img src="https://streak-stats.demolab.com?user=RachelinTheLoop&theme=default&hide_border=true&background=ffffff&v=2" width="300" />
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>



---

Thanks for visiting my portfolio!  
If you like what you see:
- ⭐ Star a project  
- 🤝 Connect on LinkedIn  
- 💼 Recommend me for data roles

Let’s use data to drive real impact—together! 📊✨

Commit message:

Add Safaricom & Airtel App Sentiment Analysis project
Added project details for Safaricom & Airtel App Sentiment Analysis, including tools used, description, business value, and project link.

README.md, after:

<!-- Animated Banner -->
<p align="center">
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/RachelinTheLoop/RachelinTheLoop/main/Mybanner.gif" alt="Ray's Animated Banner" width="100%" />
</p>

<h1 align="center">Hi 👋, I'm Rachel Odhiambo</h1>


<p align="center">
  <b>📊 Data Scientist in Training @ Moringa School | Python • ML • Analytics | Based in Nairobi, Kenya.</b><br>
  🌍  Passionate about using data to solve real-world problems| 💡 Open to Internships & Collaborations
</p>

## 👋 About Me

I'm a Data Scientist-in-training with a background in finance, credit risk, and analytics. With over 2 years of experience in the financial services sector, I'm now applying my skills in Python, SQL, and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. This portfolio showcases my hands-on projects that combine business insight with technical execution to drive data-informed decision-making.

---

## 📌 Quick Facts

- 🛠️ **I’m currently working on**: a customer service analysis project using real-world call data to improve business decision-making.
- 🌱 **I’m currently learning**: Machine Learning (clustering, time series), Cloud tools (BigQuery, AWS basics), Building interactive dashboards
- 👯 **I’m looking to collaborate on**: real-world projects that use data for social or commercial impact.
- 🤔 **I’m looking for help with**: building end-to-end ML pipelines, and model deployment (e.g., Streamlit, Flask, or cloud platforms).
- 💬 **Ask me about**: Python, SQL, Machine Learning, Data Analytics and Visualization, Business IT Systems, Moringa School
- 📫 **How to reach me**: **LinkedIn**: [Rachel Odhiambo](https://www.linkedin.com/in/rachelodhiambo/), **GitHub**: [RachelinTheLoop](https://github.com/RachelinTheLoop),  **Email**: rakothodhiambo@gmail.com
  
- 😄 **Pronouns**: she/her  
- ⚡ **Fun fact**: I love travelling and fitness.

---
## 📈 Skills

- **Programming**: Python (Pandas, NumPy, Scikit-learn, Matplotlib, Seaborn), SQL  
- **Data Tools**: Power BI, Tableau, Google Data Studio  
- **Machine Learning**: Regression, Classification  
- **Business Tools**: Excel (advanced), Google Sheets (automations), Financial Modeling  
- **Version Control**: Git, GitHub  
- **Soft Skills**: Communication, Reporting, Teamwork, Customer Excellence

## 📊 Featured Projects

### 1. 📞 Real-World Customer Care Call Analysis (Multi-Branch(10) Carwash Business)
**Tools:** Python, Pandas, Matplotlib, Seaborn, Plotly, Jupyter Notebook  
**Description:** Led an end-to-end analysis of real customer service call records collected over multiple months from a premium carwash chain. Personally documented the calls, engineered features such as call periods, days, and hours, and visualized trends in reasons and responses, uncovering outlet-level operational insights. Presented findings in a professional Jupyter Notebook.  
**Business Value:** Enabled data-driven improvements in customer care processes, identified service gaps per branch, and supported strategic decision-making with actionable insights. A dashboard is in development to further enhance operations monitoring.  
**🔒 Data Protection:** Customer phone numbers were anonymized using alias mapping techniques, ensuring strict privacy and professional handling of sensitive information throughout the project.  
**🔗 [View Project](https://github.com/RachelinTheLoop/call-center-analytics)**



### 2. 🔁 Customer Churn Prediction   
**Tools:** Python, Pandas, Scikit-learn, Matplotlib, Seaborn, XGBoost, SMOTE  
**Description:** Developed and evaluated multiple classification models to predict customer churn using historical telecom data. Explored the impact of regularization, applied SMOTE to address class imbalance, and assessed models with ROC curves, confusion matrices, and precision-recall metrics.  
**Business Value:** Helps telecom providers reduce churn by identifying at-risk customers early and supporting the design of personalized retention campaigns.  
**🔗 [View Project](https://github.com/RachelinTheLoop/predicting-customer-churn)**



### 3. ✈ Aviation Accident Data Analysis  
**Tools:** Pandas, Seaborn, Plotly, Google Colab  
**Description:** Analyzed aviation accident records to uncover trends by aircraft make, engine type, damage severity, and geographic location. Delivered compelling visuals and strategic recommendations based on data-driven evidence.  
**Business Value:** Informs aircraft acquisition, risk management, and safety strategies for aviation stakeholders.  
**🔗 [View Project](https://github.com/RachelinTheLoop/Aviation-Risk-Analysis)**
This was my first project; since then, I have undergone so much learning and growth.


---

## Projects I have collaborated on:

### **Safaricom & Airtel App Sentiment Analysis**

Tools: Python, Pandas, Scikit-learn, NLTK, SpaCy, TF-IDF, Matplotlib, Seaborn, Streamlit, FastAPI
Description: Designed and implemented an NLP-powered sentiment analysis system on over 5,000 real 2025 app reviews from the Google Play Store and Apple App Store for Kenya’s top telecom apps — M-PESA, MySafaricom, Airtel Money, and MyAirtel. Conducted extensive text preprocessing (tokenization, lemmatization, stopword removal), applied TF-IDF for feature extraction, and trained multiple machine learning models including Logistic Regression, SVM, XGBoost, and BERT. The best-performing model (Logistic Regression with SMOTE) was deployed via FastAPI and Streamlit for real-time sentiment prediction.
Business Value: Enables telecom companies to monitor customer sentiment in real time, detect early warning signs from negative reviews, and enhance user experience based on data-driven insights. Revealed key issues such as app crashes, login errors, bundle pricing complaints, and low company response rates to negative reviews — offering clear opportunities for customer experience improvement and brand trust building.

🔗 View Project: Safaricom & Airtel App Sentiment Analysis


### 🔋 [Movie Market Analysis](https://github.com/PrimeTonyCode/Movie-Market-Analysis.git)
> Movie Market Analysis for best investment decisions


## 📫 Let's Connect!
- **LinkedIn**: [Rachel Odhiambo](https://www.linkedin.com/in/rachelodhiambo/)
- **GitHub**: [RachelinTheLoop](https://github.com/RachelinTheLoop)
- **Email**: rakothodhiambo@gmail.com

### 🧰 Languages and Tools

<p align="left">
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/arduino/arduino-original.svg" height="40"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/amazonwebservices/amazonwebservices-original.svg" height="40"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/docker/docker-original.svg" height="40"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/flask/flask-original.svg" height="40"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/javascript/javascript-original.svg" height="40"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/python/python-original.svg" height="40"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/jupyter/jupyter-original.svg" height="40"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/html5/html5-original.svg" height="40"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/css3/css3-original.svg" height="40"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/linux/linux-original.svg" height="40"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/mysql/mysql-original.svg" height="40"/>
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/postgresql/postgresql-original.svg" height="40"/>
</p>

---

### 📊 GitHub Analytics
<table align="center">
  <tr>
    <td>
      <img src="https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api?username=RachelinTheLoop&show_icons=true&theme=default&bg_color=ffffff&hide_border=true&v=2" width="300" />
    </td>
    <td>
      <img src="https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api/top-langs/?username=RachelinTheLoop&layout=compact&theme=default&bg_color=ffffff&hide_border=true&v=2" width="300" />
    </td>
    <td>
      <img src="https://streak-stats.demolab.com?user=RachelinTheLoop&theme=default&hide_border=true&background=ffffff&v=2" width="300" />
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>



---

Thanks for visiting my portfolio!  
If you like what you see:
- ⭐ Star a project  
- 🤝 Connect on LinkedIn  
- 💼 Recommend me for data roles

Let’s use data to drive real impact—together! 📊✨
